TM CM airdrop guide (#281)
metaplex-foundation/developer-hub: src/pages/candy-machine/guides/airdrop-mint-to-another-wallet.md

{% /callout %}

There are two approaches described in this guide:
1. Mint using [Sugar CLI](#using-sugar-cli). No Coding required!
2. Mint using [Javascript](#using-typescript-and-mpl-candy-machine)

## Using Sugar CLI
The Sugar CLI provides two main commands for minting NFTs to other wallets:
1. `sugar mint` to mint to *one* specific wallet
2. `sugar airdrop` to mint to *multiple* wallets 

Prerequisite to allow minting through sugar is to have your Candy Machine created **without guard attached**. To create a Candy Machine with sugar you can follow the first steps of [this](https://developers.metaplex.com/candy-machine/guides/create-an-nft-collection-on-solana-with-candy-machine) Guide. If your Candy Machine has guards attached they can be removed using `sugar guard remove`.

### Single Recipient Minting with `sugar mint`
To mint NFTs to a single recipient wallet, use the `sugar mint` command with these parameters:

- `--receiver <WALLET>`: Specify the recipient's wallet address
- `--number <NUMBER>`: (Optional) Specify how many NFTs to mint to that wallet

**Example**:

> To mint 3 NFT to wallet Tes1zkZkXhgTaMFqVgbgvMsVkRJpq4Y6g54SbDBeKVV one would call:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To mint 3 NFTs to the wallet `Tes1zkZkXhgTaMFqVgbgvMsVkRJpq4Y6g54SbDBeKVV` one would call:
```

```sh
sugar mint --receiver Tes1zkZkXhgTaMFqVgbgvMsVkRJpq4Y6g54SbDBeKVV -n 3 --candy-machine 11111111111111111111111111111111
```

### Multiple Recipients with `sugar airdrop`

To mint NFTs to multiple wallets in a single command `sugar airdrop` can be used. It requires a file containing the addresses and the amount of NFTs each wallet should receive. A file like this could for example be created by snapshotting the owners of NFTs in a specific collection and adding their wallets and NFTs they hold into a file in the following format:

```json
{
  "11111111111111111111111111111111": 3,
  "22222222222222222222222222222222": 1
}
```

> By default sugar expects this file to be called `airdrop_list.json`. This default name can be changed with 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default sugar expects this file to be called `airdrop_list.json` but if if you wish to use a file of which has a different file name you can pass the file name in using
```

`--airdrop-list`.

**Example**:
To execute this airdrop the following command can be used
```sh

> sugar airdrop --candy-machine 11111111111111111111111111111111

Author: since it doesn't hut i made sure that we have different addresses in recipients and candy machine now

```

## Using Typescript and `@metaplex-foundation/mpl-candy-machine`

> In this section the code Snippets for mint functions in Javascript are shown. Both examples also include a full code snippet where a candy machine is created and afterwards a single NFT is minted to a specific wallet. To implement a full blown airdrop script one needs to implement loops and error handling around the mint function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section the code Snippets for the mint functions in Javascript are shown. Both examples also include a full code snippet where a Candy Machine is created and afterwards a single NFT is minted to a specific wallet. To implement a full blown airdrop script one needs to implement loops and error handling around the mint function.
```
